A beautiful mind.
iPhone 8 introduces an all new glass design. The world¡¯s most popular camera, now even better. The most powerful and smartest chip ever in a smartphone. Wireless charging that¡¯s truly effortless. And augmented reality experiences never before possible. iPhone 8. A new generation of iPhone.
The most durable glass ever in a smartphone, front and back. A color?matched, aerospace?grade aluminum band. New space gray, silver, and gold finishes.
The glass back enables easy wireless charging.
The world¡¯s most popular camera. Even better.
iPhone 8 features a more advanced 12MP camera. With a larger, faster sensor. A new color filter. Deeper pixels. And optical image stabilization for photos and videos.
Portrait mode on iPhone 8 Plus gets even better. For sharper foregrounds and more naturally blurred backgrounds.
The wide?angle and telephoto lenses on iPhone 8 Plus enable optical zoom, as well as digital zoom of up to 10x for photos and 6x for videos.
The most powerful and smartest chip ever in a smartphone.
Introducing A11 Bionic. With four efficiency cores that are up to 70 percent faster than A10 Fusion. And two performance cores that are up to 25 percent faster.
A second?generation performance controller provides more power when you need it. While delivering the same great battery life.
The new Apple?designed three?core GPU is up to 30 percent faster than A10 Fusion.
A11 Bionic powers extraordinary augmented reality apps and games that will change the way you see the world.
Charge with wireless charging stations and mats in hotels, cafes, and airports around the world.
iOS is the most advanced, intuitive, and secure mobile operating system in the world. It¡¯s designed to help you get the most out of iPhone.
Pay friends in Messages. Let Siri be your translator. And discover new music with friends in Apple Music.
Experience mind?blowing AR games and apps on the world¡¯s largest platform for augmented reality.
The easiest way to upgrade to the latest iPhone.
